Tranche 2 (#187)
SpinalHDL/SpinalDoc-RTD: source/SpinalHDL/Data types/bool.rst

Description
^^^^^^^^^^^

> The ``Bool`` type corresponds to a boolean value (True or False).

Reviewer: As mentioned in the chat - at least half of this should either go to the chapter on assignment or to to Introduction on Datatypes (and yes, we should fix the order that the Introduction comes first, but we can do that in a separate commit).
I'll still add some comments on the actual text.

Author: IMHO There are probably only around 5 major areas that are worth an explanation like this (a worked application of information to a specific domain) before the reader should have enough knowledge to understand reference style material.

Bool is defiantly one place.
Bits/Ints is another (which is conceptually a `bus`),
Mux/when/conditions is another,
Register is another
Combinational expressions, signals and signal direction another.

Maybe they would be improved in a tutorial/exercise form, with just a link/heading from the top of each relevant section with 'First time readers might with to work the tutorial on: Subject of tutorial' to gain a better understanding.

At the moment it is written in the form I wish I had seen to convey a number of concepts to think about at the same time, but my route was more examining the verilog output and working through the error messages :)

used in a hardware design.  While named similarly it should not be confused with
Scala `Boolean` type which does not describe hardware but truth values in the Scala
generator code.

An important concept and rule-of-thumb to understand is that the Scala

> `Boolean` type is used in places where ahead-of-time HDL code-generation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Boolean` type is used in places where elaboration-time HDL code-generation
```
The term "elaboration" is used in parts of the documentation and should ring a bell for people coming from other HW langs.

Author: IDD, maybe the dual but similar meaning use of the term elaboration both
 * in SpinalHDL and 
 * also the next stage of the flow with Verilog/VHDL to achieve synthesis
Is the only thing not clear with this for a first time reader.

In online documentation maybe this can be a linked glossary term with hover-over which defines the term, to clarify the distinction to the first time reader and also provide reference to disambiguate.
This is more a matter for setting up such a glossary of terms/definitions to help here.

> decision making is occuring in Scala code.  Like any regular program it affects

Reviewer: "It is a condition during generation of the hardware and does not become hardware."?
The current sentence is far from straightforward

Author: I am unable to relate your quoted sentence/question to the original text.

I do not understand your sentence in quotes, and do not think it is a better suggestion.  It lacks context, it doesn't explain what is a condition of what, it repeats the use of the hardware term in a bizarre reference to itself.

Unfortunately none of the concepts being conveyed are straightforward, it is just the nature of the complexity that exists and the elements of underlying knowledge needed to digest new concepts.  But we can try improve clarify.

execution of the Scala program that is SpinalHDL at the time the program is
being run to perform HDL code generation.

Therefore the value of a Scala `Boolean` can not be observed from hardware,
because it only exists ahead-of-time in the SpinalHDL program at the time of
HDL code-gen.

> In scenarios where you might need this for your design, for example to pass a

Reviewer: The general difference between scala types and SpinalHDL types would make sense in the introduction on datatypes.

Author: Maybe it would,  I shall re-read the datatypes sections again, but not from a typo/grammar improvement stance, more of a novice/beginner understanding it stance.

I certainly did not find the Scala datatype/class diagram and other info useful until I first needed to use Scala generics on Data `[T <: Data]` in some code.  Only then did I found it super useful.  I did not in anyway find it useful to translate existing Verilog/HDL knowledge into SpinalHDL knowledge concerning data.

There are probably only around 5 major areas that are worth an explanation like this before there should be enough knowledge to understand reference material.  Bool is defiantly one place.  Bits/Ints is another (which is conceptually a `bus`),  Mux/when/conditions is another, Register is another, combinational expressions and signal direction another.

Reviewer: I actually found it helpful in the beginning, it's very similar to diagrams that I was used to from VHDL...

Let's keep it this for now and I'll move it when I fix the order of the chapters.

value (that maybe acting as a parameterized constant input) from Scala into your
hardware design, you can type convert it to Bool with the constructor `Bool(value: Boolean)`.

Similarly the value of a SpinalHDL `Bool` can not be seen at code-generation, all
that can be seen and manipulated is the HDL construct concerning a `wire` and how it
is routed (through modules/Components), driven (sourced) and connected (sunk).

> The signal direction of assignment operators `:=` is managed by SpinalHDL.

Reviewer: are you trying to say that the right side of `:=` is assigned to the left side?

The use of the Bool instance on the left-hand-side or the right-hand-side of the
assignment operator `:=` dictates if it is a source (provides state) or sink
(captures state) for a given assignment.

Multiple uses of the assignment operator are allowed, such that it is normal
for a signal wire to act as a source (provides a value to drive HDL state) to be
able to connect and drive multiple inputs of other HDL constructs.  When a Bool
instance used as a source the order the assignment statments appear or are
executed in Scala does not matter, unlike when it is used as a sink
(captures state).

> When multiple assignment operators drive the Bool (the Bool is on the

Reviewer: Only if all but one of the assignments is in a condition, see chapter on assignments.

Author: I think you mean the `when` condition and other similar HDL constructs.  I found this to be a given and it has not been an important detail to understand at any point so far.

That is: Yes if I wrap my assignment in a Scala or hardware condition it is going to modulate if and when that assignment occurs.  This is a given.

If there is a specific contrived example that can highlight a not-obvious SpinalHDL precedence rule that breaks the general simple rule(s), maybe there should be a section demonstrating it, but I would think it would be under intermediate/advanced user areas (end of chapters/erratum) and not something brought up when explaining initial concepts.

Kind of learn this first... now you have understand that... in this scenario those rules break.  This is the exception of the rule.

     - Create a Bool assigned with ``false``
     - Bool
   * - Bool(value: Boolean)
     - Create a Bool assigned with a value from a Scala Boolean type (true,

>        false).  This implicitly converts to ``True`` or ``False`` as

Reviewer: It does not implicitly convert since it's a Bool all along?

Author: This is obviously an Explicit conversion from Boolean to Bool not sure what I was thinking that day.  Maybe if we replace the word `implicit` with `explicit` does it make sense.

It starts off as a Boolean and becomes a Bool, like a regular JVM language type conversion.

Reviewer: Do you think it would make more sense to describe this difference at the beginning of this chapter, a quick `Bool` vs. `Boolean`? In the sense of:
"The Bool type corresponds to a boolean value (True or False) or a single bit/wire in hardware. While named similarly it should not be confused with Scala `Boolean`s which don't describe hardware but truth values in the Scala generator code. To be used in hardware a `Boolean` must be converted to a `Bool`, i.e. using the below described `Bool` constructor."

Author: Definitely :)

       necessary during elboration phase of HDL generation.
     - Bool

.. code-block:: scala

   val myBool_1 = Bool()        // Create a Bool

>    myBool_1 := False            // := is the assignment operator (like verilog <=)

Reviewer: If we want to add that information we should make a "Help for Verilog people" chapter rather than this one lone mention?

Reviewer: I understand what you mean. But is this in the end a helpful equivalence? `:=` is used in places were verilog would use `<=` or `=`? But if you think it helps that much we can also keep it.

And no, I dont think we need "equal representation" ;-) VHDL equivalents have their own page where we have to space to actually mention the details.

Author: As someone still in their first year of using SpinalHDL, I would have found it useful to get a frame of reference.

With regards to `<=` and `=` differences, it does not matter for the purpose of frame of refrence, the most often used type in verilog assignment type is `<=` by maybe 99:1 in the verilog I have seen.  YMMV

Also the snippet in this code example box is really targeting a novice/beginner to intermediate user of SpinalHDL.  I think an intermediate user and above will glance at that code example box and move on, on the basis there is nothing to learn in there.

    * f := req || (f && !ack)
    */

  // mind the order of assignments!  last one wins
  val g = RegInit(False) setWhen(req) fallWhen(ack)
  // equivalent to g := ((!g) && req) || (g && !ack)

Edge detection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This feature will always imply a :ref:`RegNext <regnext>` pattern to track the state history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All edge detection functions will instantiate a register via :ref:`RegNext <regnext>` to get a delayed value of the ``Bool`` in question.
```
?

Author: `...instantiate an additional register via ...` ?  to clarify the register being talked about ?   It may sound verbose to us to restate that but I ask myself how the documentation reads after it has been put through an automated translator into another natural language.

Reviewer: Not sure google translate is a good test for this... but yes, let's go for "an additional register via"
